# yawner
yawner (Yet Another Weird commaNd-processing languagE translatoR) is a tiny scripting language that compiles into Windows Batch or Unix Shell.

## Current status

This project is in active development state, only few features are implemented (including simple commands and variables).

## Why yawner?

yawner is a meta scripting language, it has **no** runtime dependencies. It is possible because yawner doesn't *execute* script - it *compiles* them to platform-native scripting language. Scripts written on yawner will work on every system with cmd.exe/sh available, and will be still readable for end-users.

yawner idea is simple:
1. you write a cross-platform script;
2. yawner compiles it into two platform-specific dependency-free scripts;
3. users can run, read and edit these scripts with ease.

For example, you write a simple yawner script:
```
foo = 'hello'
echo $foo
```

Now, simply run `yawner -i my_script.yw -o my_script.sh`, and your Unix shell script is here. It will look like this:
```
#!/usr/bin/env sh
# This script has been generated by Yawner Unix-Shell Compiler

foo='hello'
echo $foo
```

Want to greet Windows users too? You can do `yawner -i my_script.yw -o my_script.bat`, and yawner will turn your code into something like this:
```
@echo off
rem This script has been generated by Yawner Batch Compiler

set "foo=hello"
echo(%foo%
```

## Installation

You'll need perl 5.42.0 or later.

```
git clone https://github.com/ryzhpolsos/yawner
cd yawner
perl yawner.pl <options here...>
```

## Building binary file

You'll need perl 5.42.0 or later and cpanm installed.
```
git clone https://github.com/ryzhpolsos/yawner
cd yawner
cpanm --installdeps .
perl build.pl
```
Your fresh yawner binary will be in `bin/yawner`.

## Usage

```
yawner [-i <input file>] [-o <output file>] [-f <bat|sh>]

    -i <input file>: source script file, defaults to stdin
    -o <output file>: output file, defaults to stdout
    -f <bat|sh>: output file format, guessed from output file name if omitted
```
